h2. Spikein Analysis Script

A very basic script for analyzing ERCC controls in RNA-seq data

h2. About

Input: 

* directory containing one or more fastq.gz files. 
** Tested with concatentated Illumina HiSeq output
* SampleSheet.csv which describes the samples found in fastq.gz files
** Sorry this is a custom format from "Illuminati":https://github.com/vlandham/illuminati
* ERCC bowtie indexes built under a subdirectory called 'data'
* mix 1 and mix 2 expected values in a file called 'expected.txt' inside data

Output:

A sub-directory in the starting directory containing the following:

* Alignments to the ERCC control sequences
* Basic RPKM outputs for each sample
* Graphs displaying dynamic range of samples compared to mix 1 and mix 2

h2. To Use

* git clone into directory of your choice
* create 'data' subdirectory 
* here are the needed files inside data:

<pre>
ERCC92.1.ebwt
ERCC92.2.ebwt
ERCC92.3.ebwt
ERCC92.4.ebwt
ERCC92.fa
ERCC92.fa.fai
expected.txt
</pre>

expected.txt has the following format:

<pre>
Re-sort ID  ERCC ID subgroup  concentration in Mix 1 (atmol/ul) concentration in Mix 2 (atmol/ul) expected fold-change rati log2(fold-change) expected dCt
</pre>

run @./spikein_run.rb /path/to/fastq.gz/files@

SampleReport.csv has the following fields:

<pre>
output,lane,sample name,illumina index,custom barcode,read,reference,total reads,pass filter reads,pass filter percent,align percent,type,read length
</pre>

Only @output@, @lane@, @sample name@, and @illumina index@ should be necessary.

@output@ should be the name of the fastq file, @sample name@ along with @lane@ is used to name the spikein analysis output.

Example:

<pre>
output,lane,sample name,illumina index,custom barcode,read,reference,total reads,pass filter reads,pass filter percent,align percent,type,read length
test.fastq,1,Illumina_1ug_1,ACAGTG,,1,mm9,38088422,38088422,100.00,69.60,single,51
</pre>

Enjoy!

h2. Dependencies

Only tested on Mac 10.7 and Linux - CentOS6.

* ruby 1.9
* R
* samtools
* bowtie
* zcat


